---
title: VMASC Virginia Data Cube Products and Datasets
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: "docs"
toc: true
---

# VMASC Data Cube Products

Products are a collection of datasets that share the same set of measurements and additional metadata. The VMASC Data Cube currently contains the following products:

* io_lulc
    * Impact Observatory's [Land Use Land Cover](https://livingatlas.arcgis.com/landcover/)
        * The Land Use Land Cover Maps are a collection of land classification datasets that were generated by the Impact Observatory using Sentinel-2 products. Nine spectral bands were utilized to create nine different land classifcations of the Earth.

* ls7_c2l2_sr + ls7_c2l2_st
    * [Registry of Open Data on AWS - USGS Landsat](https://registry.opendata.aws/usgs-landsat/)
        * Landsat 7 was launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California on April 15, 1999 on a Delta II rocket.
        * The primary features on Landsat 7 include a panchromatic band with 15 meter spatial resolution, an onboard full aperture solar calibrator, five percent absolute radiometric calibration, and a thermal infrared channel with a four-fold improvement in spatial resolution over Thematic Mapper (TM)

* ls8_c2l2_sr + ls8_c2l2_st
    * [Registry of Open Data on AWS - USGS Landsat](https://registry.opendata.aws/usgs-landsat/)
      * Landsat-8 is an Earth observation satellite launched into orbit on February 11th, 2013 by a joint collaboration effort by USGS and NASA. Datasets have been produced daily since its launch.
      * The first sensor of Landsat-8, the Operational Land Imager (OLI) records measurements from nine bands. These span the visible, near infrared, and shortwave spectrums.
      * The second sensor of Landsat-8, the Thermal Infrared Sensor (TIRS) records measurements from two long wavelength infrared bands. These measurements target land surface temperature.

* nasadem
    * [Microsoft's Planetary Computer NASADEM](https://www.earthdata.nasa.gov/esds/competitive-programs/measures/nasadem)
        * The NASA Digital Elevation Model, or NASADEM, are a collection of high spatial resolution datasets derived by reprocessing Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (STRM) data with several other digital elevation models.
        * The STRM was an eleven day global flyover that captured topographic data from Africa, Europe, North America, South America, Asia, and Australia. This mission took place around Februrary, 2000.

* s2_l2a
    * [Sentinel-2 Level-2a Surface Reflectance products](https://sentinel.esa.int/web/sentinel/user-guides/sentinel-2-msi/product-types/level-2a)
      * Sentinel-2 refers to an Earth observation mission operated by the European Space Agency. Observation is currently conducted through two satellites, Sentinel-2a (s2a) and Sentinel-2b (s2b). The s2a satellite was launched on June 23rd, 2015, and the s2b satellite was launched on March 7th, 2017.
      * Both satellites measure from the same Multi-Spectral Imager, which collects data from 12 bands. These bands are within the visible, near infrared, shortwave infrared wavelengths.

* usgs_nlcd_*
    * [MRLC NLCD Data](https://www.mrlc.gov/data)
      * The National Land Cover Database (NLCD) provides nationwide data on land cover and land cover change at a 30m resolution with a 16-class legend based on a modified Anderson Level II classification system. NLCD 2021 represents the latest evolution of NLCD land cover products focused on providing innovative land cover and land cover change data for the Nation.
      * NLCD 2021 offers 9 integrated epochs of land cover for years 2001, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2016, 2019, and 2021. chs (2001 – 2021) and are directly comparable across the full time series and suitable for multi-temporal analysis.

# VMASC Data Cube Datasets

Within the products on the Data Cube are thousands of datasets ready to be analyzed. At the time of writing this document, the VMASC Data Cube Products contained the following amount of datasets:

* io_lulc
    * Number of datasets : 728
* ls7_c2l2_sr
    * Number of datasets : 5,872
* ls8_c2l2_sr
    * Number of datasets : 5,850
* ls5_c2l2_st
    * Number of datasets : 12,107
* ls7_c2l2_st
    * Number of datasets : 14,746
* ls8_c2l2_st
    * Number of datasets : 6,688
* ls9_c2l2_st
    * Number of datasets : 1,439
* nasadem
    * Number of datasets : 14,520
* s2_l2a
    * Number of datasets : 68,673
* usgs_nlcd
    * Number of datasets : 9
      * Years 2001, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2016, 2019, and 2021
* usgs_nlcd_imp
    * Number of datasets : 9
      * Years 2001, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2016, 2019, and 2021
* usgs_nlcd_tcc
    * Number of datasets : 8
      * Years 2011, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, and 2021
